>> Scott Moss: Yeah what's up?
>> Speaker 2: So how do you sort of
decide when to just make a really deep
tree of data versus a very
sort of normalized or
sort of split apart, more relational data.
>> Scott Moss: What I found out is that
Mongo is really good at changing how you
model data.
Because if you think about modeling
data from a SQL perspective,
it has nothing to do with application,
it's just data.
It's just how do I model the data so
it fits the database?
Whereas in Mongo it's so
flexible, you actually wanna model
the data how it fits the application.
So my answer to that is how
are you querying the data?
What needs to see it?
And what does it need to see?
If you have a screen on your app
that's got the user profile,
it's got this information about settings,
and it's got all the posts.
Maybe you should put that all in one
thing, so you just hit it once and
grab it all, right?
Cuz it's built for your application
versus built for the database.
Now if you've built SQL you might
be thinking, that's disgusting.
Yeah, in SQL it is disgusting.
But like in Mango it actually works,
it's better for you if you do it that way.
So for me, we model our data
around what the application needs.
That way we can just hit one route,
do one database call and
get everything we need for
that page, and then we're done.
We don't have to do like multiple database
queries to like get this, and then this,
and then this, and
then this just to put it on the page.
It's like, this one page needs all this,
put it in one thing.
Done.
>> Speaker 2: This was on Firebase that
I saw this, which is also NoSQL, but
I've seen instances where they
literally write the same content in
different places,
just duplicates of the same content.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, yeah,
they denormalize, yeah.
>> Speaker 2: So literally,
the blog post will go under user/posts.
>> Scott Moss: Mm-hm.
>> Speaker 2: And
also it will just go under posts, and
also it will go under
category/categoryname/posts in there.
And so you've written that blog
post content in three places.
Is that madness or is that cool?
>> Scott Moss: That takes
it to an extreme level.
I think at some point it's just like,
that's a lot of work,
because you gotta do a lot of middleware
to keep track of all that, right?
But there is some really good benefits
of denormalizing your data, right?
So if you start off with normalizing it,
as in they got a reference here but
no reference here.
But eventually you start to
denormalize the words in two places.
I think that actually really
is a good place to be, but
only if your application needs it.
If your application's not asking for that,
like if I have a org and a project and
they both reference each other.
When I ask for
a project do I need the org there?
Why do I need that, you know what I mean?
So you gotta think about
the queries that you're asking for.
And again, it's really gonna be based
off what is it that you're asking for?
At some point, if your data structures
look like that, if you're modeling
data like that, then I would imagine
your user experience is probably bad to.
So you should figure out,
you gotta take a step back and
realize what is the information
you're trying to show you users?
And then how do you model the data but
you know, denormalizing is not that bad.
I would just stay away from like
arrays and arrays together.
Just working with arrays in general
is always gonna be tough if
you've probably noticed,
those are some of the most challenging
thing in exercises today where arrays.
So, I would try my best to stay away
from that as much as possible and
add a reference on the other side as much
as I can, unless there's just no way I can
get around it because the way I
need to query data, so, yeah.
You had a question?
>> Speaker 3: Yeah, so it relates
to the previous question is that,
you said whatever links together
should be put in a single document.
So I work for
a commerce application and we have
a lot of things going on in one page.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: We have shopping cart,
we have shopping list, we have items and
all the items available,
and lots of stuff.
>> Scott Moss: Right.
>> Speaker 3: So if we cram all these into
one document,
then we are at a disadvantage, so.
>> Scott Moss: Well, you can't put
the whole app in one document cuz if you
put the whole app in document, and then
you query one document, you've queried
the whole database and that's just-
>> Speaker 3: Yes, but just for like,
to show just the homepage we
need all these stuff loading up?
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, yeah.
>> Speaker 3: So-
>> Scott Moss: So
the way I would think about that,
if you had a homepage, what specifically
is on a homepage and only on a homepage?
Put all that in one document.
You probably have other stuff around
the homepage that exists on other pages.
Maybe those don't go in
the homepage document then,
they go in some other document cuz
they are gonna be used somewhere else.
They just happen to be in the homepage.
So I would just put specific
things that are always together
in the document together and try to.
For instance, if I was doing SQL,
I would have a user table and
then I would have a user settings table.
And then I would join them get
the settings for the user.
Whereas that doesn't really make sense
cuz I'm always gonna get the settings for
the user, always, so
I'll just put the settings embedded
in the user then I'm done, right?
So like you kind of got to take
it step by step like that,
to understand why am I even joining this
when I'm always going to get this anyways,
like default,I'm always going to
get the settings for this user.
Why not just put it here.
So it's like that type of thing so, yeah,
you can't take it to the point where
you're putting everything in there
because a document has a collection
of a top of like sixteen,
I can't remember if it's 16 megabytes or
10 megabytes,
the limit of what a document can be.
I think it's 16 megabytes.
Yeah, I'm pretty sure 16 megabytes,
that's the biggest a document can be, so
you can't do that.
16 megabytes is just ridiculous, so
yeah, don't push it that far but
group things that make sense
together as much as possible.
Especially if you're fighting
around transactions and
undoing things because things break, you
gotta go back like all right how can we
change our data model to where we can
just do all of this in one operation and
take advantage of the nested structure.
>> Speaker 4: In this case would
it be possible to have multiple
instances of node?
I mean, let's say like shopping cart,
I mean that's a good example.
Even if someone is on a home page,
you still need to keep up our system
shopping cart with items and everything.
Would it be possible to have one server
only handle like this direct content on
the homepage for example, another server
taking care of only the shopping cart.
>> Scott Moss: Yes,
that's like a market service architecture,
a lot of people do that today, or
they have these little servers that do one
thing, this server does authentication,
this server only handle users,
this server handles like, whatever, yeah.
So that's a very common pattern,
that right there,
that architecture, it can get pretty crazy
cuz now you gotta figure out a way to
communicate between those
different architectures.
You need a license to operate the queueing
system, all types of different things.
You might need a gateway that is
a proxy that sits in front of it.
So that just introduces a lot more
problems, but yes, a lot of people do
micro service architecture and
there is nothing wrong with that.
They can all talk to
the same database too,
cuz you can connect with just a string.
>> Speaker 5: So
you'd probably just do a mix,
a relational database also with Mongo?
Or, because I mean that will
complicate things, I don't know.
>> Scott Moss: I think you can.
I think if you're the Targets
in the Googles of the world,
I think you can't just use one database.
It's just not gonna solve your problem.
You're gonna have different scenarios and
you're gonna have different needs.
So there's nothing wrong
with mixing two databases.
We use Postgres for our analytics
database, but we use Mongo for
our application database and
they work together just fine.